### Prerequisites

- **[Java](https://github.com/openjdk/jdk)**, should be greater or equal than 1.8.0_251.
- **[Maven](https://maven.apache.org/)**, should be greater or equal than 3.6.3.

### Get Example Code

Example code is part of `tRPC-Java` repo. Clone and change directory to `tRPC-Java`.

```bash
$ git clone https://github.com/trpc-group/trpc-java.git
$ cd trpc-java
```

The detailed example codes can be found in the `trpc-demo` directory, as follows:

```text
trpc-demo
├── trpc-java-demo                # The directory for the basic example codes.
│   └──src/main/java/com/tencent/trpc/demo/example  # The detailed example codes path.
│       ├── config                # An example based on code configuration.
│       ├── yaml                  # An example based on YAML configuration files.
│       └── stream                # An example of streaming functionality.
└── trpc-spring-demo              # The directory for the example based on Spring Boot.
    ├── trpc-spring-client-demo   # The client-side example based on Spring Boot.
    └── trpc-spring-server-demo   # The server-side example based on Spring Boot.
```

### Run the Example

This document only demonstrates how to execute the example codes using the command line. If you are
using an IDE, you can directly import the `tRPC-Java` repository and execute the corresponding
classes within the IDE.

#### Install tRPC-Java

To install `tRPC-Java` and its dependencies locally, execute the following command:

```bash
$ mvn -Dmaven.test.skip=true clean install
```

> Please compile tRPC-Java through `mvn -Dmaven.test.skip=true clean install`. If you want to run unit tests, you need to use JDK 8.

#### Run the Server-Side Example Codes

To run the server-side example codes, you can execute the following command:

```bash
$ mvn exec:java -pl :trpc-java-demo -Dexec.cleanupDaemonThreads=false -Dexec.mainClass=com.tencent.trpc.demo.example.config.ServerTest
```

Correct, when you run the server-side example codes, you should see the normal startup information
in the console. The server will run in the foreground, and if you want to stop the server, you can
press `Ctrl-C` to terminate the process.

#### Run the Client-Side Example Codes

To execute the following command, open a new terminal and navigate to the `tRPC-Java` directory.
Make sure that the server is already running before executing the command:

```bash
$ mvn exec:java -pl :trpc-java-demo -Dexec.cleanupDaemonThreads=false -Dexec.mainClass=com.tencent.trpc.demo.example.config.ClientTest
```

Correct, when you execute the client-side code, you should see the information indicating successful
communication between the client and the server. Once the communication is completed, the client
will terminate gracefully. You can observe the logs or any output in the console to verify the
successful interaction between the client and server.

### Update and re-execute both the server and client codes

If you want to update the codes and re-execute it, you can navigate to the following directory and
modify the corresponding codes:

```text
src/main/java/com/tencent/trpc/demo/example/config
src/main/java/com/tencent/trpc/demo/example/server
```

After updating the codes, you can execute the following command to recompile it:

```bash
$ mvn -pl :trpc-java-demo clean compile
```

Once the codes are successfully compiled, you can proceed to execute the server-side example codes
by following the instructions mentioned earlier in the `Run the Server-Side Example Codes` section.

### What's Next

- Read [Basic Tutorial](2.basic_tutorial.md) to get deeper into `tRPC-Java`.
